Add hcloud Ansible Tutorial (#1)
LKaemmerling/community-content: tutorials/howto-hcloud-ansible/01.en.md

---
path: "/tutorials/howto-hcloud-ansible"
slug: "howto-hcloud-ansible"
date: "2019-05-02"
title: "How-to: Hetzner Cloud Ansible modules"
short_description: "How to use the Hetzner Cloud Ansible modules for creating and managing resources on the Hetzner Cloud."
tags: ["Hetzner Cloud", "hcloud", "Ansible"]
author: "Lukas Kämmerling"
author_ink: "https://github.com/LKaemmerling"

> author_img: "https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/4281581?s=400&v=4"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author_img: "https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/4281581"
```

author_description: ""
language: "en"
available_languages: ["en"]
header_img: ""
---

## Introduction

In this how-to you will learn to use the hcloud Ansible modules. This includes how to create and delete resources and how to do more complex scenarios like attaching a volume to a server.

 **Prerequisites**

 * Hetzner Cloud API Token 

   * Basic knowledge about the Hetzner Cloud

>        * We assume that you know what a server, an image, a server type and a volume is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       * knowing what a server, an image, a server type and a volume is.
```

>   * Visit Hetzner Cloud Console at [https://console.hetzner.cloud](https://console.hetzner.cloud), select your project, and create a new API Token.

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit confused here, the first point is `Hetzner Cloud API Token` and here you give instructions on how to create one. Wouldn't that be a underpoint while the knoweledge thats required should have it's own top level point?

Author: I have changed it a bit, thank you!

* [Ansible 2.8](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html) is installed and you have basic knowledge about it.

> * `hcloud-python` installed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `hcloud-python` installed (`pip install hcloud`)
```

>    * Just run `pip install hcloud`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Step 1 - Basic Usage

> In Ansible, you can control your infrastructure by using yaml files, which describe the state of your infrastructure. These files are called "Roles". Every role can have tasks. A task is something like "create a server", "run a command on the server" or something else. You can control Ansible with the `ansible` command. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Ansible, you can control your infrastructure by using yaml files. They describe the state of your infrastructure. These files are called "Roles". Every role can have multiple tasks. A task is something like "create a server", "run a command on the server" or something else. You can control Ansible with the `ansible` command. 
```

> In Ansible, you can control your infrastructure by using yaml files, which describe the state of your infrastructure. These files are called "Roles". Every role can have tasks. A task is something like "create a server", "run a command on the server" or something else. You can control ansible with the `ansible` command. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Ansible you can control your infrastructure with yaml files. They describe the state of your infrastructure. These files are called "Roles". Every role can have tasks. A task is something like "create a server", "run a command on the server" or something else. You can control ansible with the `ansible` command. 
```

> For usage of the module, you only need to create a task like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the module a taske like the following is all you need:
```

Author: ```suggestion
To use the module, a task like the following is needed:
```

```yml
hcloud_server:
      api_token: "YOUR_API_TOKEN"
      name: my-server
      server_type: cx11
      image: ubuntu-18.04
      state: present
```
All Hetzner Cloud modules are built into Ansible 2.8!

## Step 2 - Create a server

> So you have learned something about the basic usage of Ansible. Now we will show you, how you can create a new server with the hcloud-server module. First of all, you should save the following YAML as `hcloud-server.yml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have learned something about the basic usage of Ansible. Now we will show you, how you can create a new server with the hcloud-server module. First of all, you should save the following YAML as `hcloud-server.yml`.
```

```
---
- name: Create Basic Server
  hosts: localhost
  connection: local
  gather_facts: False
  user: root
  vars:
    hcloud_token: YOUR_API_TOKEN
  tasks:
    - name: Create a basic server
      hcloud_server:
          api_token: "{{ hcloud_token }}"
          name: my-server
          server_type: cx11
          image: ubuntu-18.04
          state: present
      register: server
```

The snippet will create a new server called `my-server` with the server type `cx11` and the image `ubuntu-18.04`, the state is `present` so the module will create the server.

> When you now run `ansible-playbook -v hcloud-server.yml` you should get a output similar to this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you now run `ansible-playbook -v hcloud-server.yml` you should get a output similar to this:
```

Author: ```suggestion
When you run `ansible-playbook -v hcloud-server.yml` you should get an output similar to this below:

localhost                  : ok=1    changed=1    unreachable=0    failed=0    skipped=0    rescued=0    ignored=0   
```

Congratulations! You have created your first Hetzner Cloud server with the `hcloud_server`- Ansible module!
You should now see a server in your [Hetzner Cloud Console](https://console.hetzner.cloud/).

## Step 3 - Create a volume and attach it to a server
Now we create a server and a attach a volume to it. The following snippet creates a server (the server from Step 2!) and create a new volume wich will be attached to the server. Save the following snippet as `hcloud-server-volume.yml`.

```yaml
---
- name: Create a Server and a Volume with server
  hosts: localhost
  connection: local
  gather_facts: False
  user: root
  vars:
    hcloud_token: YOUR_API_TOKEN
  tasks:
    - name: Create a basic server
      hcloud_server:
          api_token: "{{ hcloud_token }}"
          name: my-server
          server_type: cx11
          image: ubuntu-18.04
          state: present
      register: server
    - name: Create a volume
      hcloud_volume:
          api_token: "{{ hcloud_token }}"
          name: my-volume
          size: 10

>           server: "{{ server.hcloud_server.name}}"

Reviewer: Missing space at the end of the line?

changed: [localhost] => {"changed": true, "hcloud_server": {"backup_window": "None", "datacenter": "nbg1-dc3", "id": "2505729", "image": "ubuntu-18.04", "ipv4_address": "<10.0.0.1>", "ipv6": "<2001:db8:1234::/64>", "labels": {}, "location": "nbg1", "name": "my-server", "rescue_enabled": false, "server_type": "cx11", "status": "running"}, "root_password": "xrLvkKwXTxNnECACdCEf"}

TASK [Create a volume] **************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
changed: [localhost] => {"changed": true, "hcloud_volume": {"id": "2489399", "labels": {}, "location": "nbg1", "name": "my-volume", "server": "my-server", "size": 10}}

PLAY RECAP **************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
localhost                  : ok=2    changed=2    unreachable=0    failed=0    skipped=0    rescued=0    ignored=0   
```

> You have created a server and a volume which is attached to the server! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have created a server and an attached volume! 
```

## Conclusion

> You now have a basic overview of the Hetzner Cloud Ansible modules. We have covered how you can create and delete resources and how to do more complex scenarios like attaching a volume to a server. You can find more help on the [official documentation](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/list_of_cloud_modules.html#hcloud). If you need deeper help, just open an issue on our [Github Repository](https://github.com/ansible/ansible).  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You now have a basic overview of the Hetzner Cloud Ansible modules. We covered how you can create and delete resources and how to do more complex scenarios like attaching a volume to a server. You can find more help on the [official documentation](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/list_of_cloud_modules.html#hcloud). If you need further help, just open an issue on our [Github Repository](https://github.com/ansible/ansible).
```
